.TH "Obtaining error values and descriptions." 3 "10 Jan 2009" "Version 1.3" "libircclient" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Obtaining error values and descriptions. \- 
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBirc_errno\fP (\fBirc_session_t\fP *session)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the last error code. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "const char * \fBirc_strerror\fP (int ircerrno)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the text error message associated with this error code. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int irc_errno (\fBirc_session_t\fP * session)"
.PP
Returns the last error code. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIsession\fP An initiated session.
.RE
.PP
This function returns the last error code associated with last operation of this IRC session. Possible error codes are defined in \fBlibirc_errors.h\fP
.PP
As usual, next errno rules apply:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBirc_errno()\fP should be called ONLY if the called function fails;
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fBirc_errno()\fP doesn't return 0 if function succeed; actually, the return value will be undefined.
.IP "\(bu" 2
you should call \fBirc_errno()\fP IMMEDIATELY after function fails, before calling any other libircclient function.
.PP
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBirc_strerror\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "const char * irc_strerror (int ircerrno)"
.PP
Returns the text error message associated with this error code. 
.PP
\fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIircerrno\fP A numeric error code returned by \fBirc_errno()\fP
.RE
.PP
This function returns the text representation of the given error code.
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBirc_errno()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libircclient from the source code.
